index.md, before:

---
layout: default
---

# Nirmit  
### Cybersecurity • Ethical Hacking • SOC Operations • Red Team Labs

> **I build systems, break them, and defend them.**

Cybersecurity practitioner focused on hands-on offensive and defensive security implementation. My work involves building controlled lab environments to simulate adversary behavior, deploy monitoring systems, analyze detection workflows, and study how modern threats are identified and mitigated.

---

## 🚀 Featured Security Projects

Hands-on implementations demonstrating red and blue team principles.

---

### 🛡️ SIEM Deployment & SOC Simulation Lab

Deployed and configured a Wazuh SIEM environment to simulate real-world Security Operations Center workflows.

**Key Work**
- Configured Wazuh SIEM on Ubuntu VM  
- Integrated Windows endpoint agent for centralized log collection  
- Executed Atomic Red Team attack simulations  
- Investigated alert severity levels and detection triggers  

**Stack:** Wazuh • Ubuntu • Windows • Atomic Red Team

---

### 🕵️ Custom Multi-Service Honeypot (SSH & HTTP)

Engineered a Python-based honeypot to emulate exposed network services and observe adversary interaction patterns.

**Key Work**
- Implemented socket-level SSH and HTTP service emulation  
- Configured realistic protocol banners  
- Logged attacker IP addresses, timestamps, and payload data  
- Conducted behavioral observation in isolated lab  

**Stack:** Python • Socket Programming • Multi-threading

---

### 💻 Endpoint Telemetry & Behavioral Monitoring Tool

Developed a host-level monitoring utility to study system input capture and behavioral logging in a sandboxed environment.

**Key Work**
- Implemented system-level event listener  
- Designed structured logging mechanism  
- Evaluated endpoint visibility artifacts in virtual environment  

**Stack:** Python • Event Handling • Logging

---

## 🧠 Technical Focus

### Offensive Security
- Network scanning & enumeration  
- Vulnerability assessment fundamentals  
- Attack simulation & adversary emulation  

### Defensive Security
- SIEM deployment (Wazuh)  
- Log analysis & alert investigation  
- Threat detection workflows  
- Endpoint monitoring research  

---

## 🔗 Connect

GitHub: https://github.com/nirmitrip  
LinkedIn: https://linkedin.com/in/nirmit-raut-a28490272

Commit message:

Improve link formatting for GitHub and LinkedIn
Updated the formatting of GitHub and LinkedIn links.

index.md, after:

---
layout: default
---

# Nirmit  
### Cybersecurity • Ethical Hacking • SOC Operations • Red Team Labs

> **I build systems, break them, and defend them.**

Cybersecurity practitioner focused on hands-on offensive and defensive security implementation. My work involves building controlled lab environments to simulate adversary behavior, deploy monitoring systems, analyze detection workflows, and study how modern threats are identified and mitigated.

---

## 🚀 Featured Security Projects

Hands-on implementations demonstrating red and blue team principles.

---

### 🛡️ SIEM Deployment & SOC Simulation Lab

Deployed and configured a Wazuh SIEM environment to simulate real-world Security Operations Center workflows.

**Key Work**
- Configured Wazuh SIEM on Ubuntu VM  
- Integrated Windows endpoint agent for centralized log collection  
- Executed Atomic Red Team attack simulations  
- Investigated alert severity levels and detection triggers  

**Stack:** Wazuh • Ubuntu • Windows • Atomic Red Team

---

### 🕵️ Custom Multi-Service Honeypot (SSH & HTTP)

Engineered a Python-based honeypot to emulate exposed network services and observe adversary interaction patterns.

**Key Work**
- Implemented socket-level SSH and HTTP service emulation  
- Configured realistic protocol banners  
- Logged attacker IP addresses, timestamps, and payload data  
- Conducted behavioral observation in isolated lab  

**Stack:** Python • Socket Programming • Multi-threading

---

### 💻 Endpoint Telemetry & Behavioral Monitoring Tool

Developed a host-level monitoring utility to study system input capture and behavioral logging in a sandboxed environment.

**Key Work**
- Implemented system-level event listener  
- Designed structured logging mechanism  
- Evaluated endpoint visibility artifacts in virtual environment  

**Stack:** Python • Event Handling • Logging

---

## 🧠 Technical Focus

### Offensive Security
- Network scanning & enumeration  
- Vulnerability assessment fundamentals  
- Attack simulation & adversary emulation  

### Defensive Security
- SIEM deployment (Wazuh)  
- Log analysis & alert investigation  
- Threat detection workflows  
- Endpoint monitoring research  

---

## 🔗 Connect

- 🔗 **GitHub:** [github.com/nirmitrip](https://github.com/nirmitrip)
- 🔗 **LinkedIn:** [linkedin.com/in/nirmit-raut-a28490272](https://linkedin.com/in/nirmit-raut-a28490272)
